# Changelog

## Unreleased

## 0.9.1 - 2020-10-07

- API
    - BREAKING CHANGE: SpanId, TraceId and TraceFlags are no longer used as instances, but only contain helper methods for managing conversion between Strings, bytes and other formats. SpanId and TraceId are now natively String-typed, and the TraceFlags is a single byte.
    - BREAKING CHANGE: Propagators now only expose a singleton instance.
    - BREAKING CHANGE: The LabelConsumer and AttributeConsumer are now first-class interfaces, and the underlying consumer interface has had the key made additionally generic. Please prefer using the specific interfaces, rather than the underlying `ReadableKeyValuePairs.KeyValueConsumer`.
    - BREAKING CHANGE: Minimum JDK version has been updated to 8, with Android API level 24.
    - BREAKING CHANGE: Metric Instrument names are now case-insensitive.
    - BREAKING CHANGE: The type-safety on Attributes has been moved to a new AttributeKey, and the AttributeValue wrappers have been removed. This impacts all the semantic attribute definitions, and the various APIs that use Attributes.
    - BREAKING CHANGE: The obsolete HTTP_STATUS_TEXT semantic attribute has been removed.
    - BREAKING CHANGE: The type of the REDIS_DATABASE_INDEX semantic attribute has been changed to be numeric.
    - BREAKING CHANGE: Constant Labels have been removed from metric Instrument definitions.
    - BREAKING CHANGE: The number of available Span Status options has been greatly reduced (from 16 to 3).
    - BREAKING CHANGE: Constant labels have been removed from metric Instrument definitions.
    - BREAKING CHANGE: The only way to specify span parenting is via a parent Context
    - BREAKING CHANGE: The default TextMapPropagator is now a no-op in the API
    - BREAKING CHANGE: CorrelationContext has been renamed to Baggage
    - BREAKING CHANGE: Null-valued span attribute behavior has been changed to being "unspecified".
    - BREAKING CHANGE: Link and Event interfaces have been removed from the API
    - BREAKING CHANGE: The Status object has been removed from the API, in favor of StatusCanonicalCode
    - BUGFIX: the `noParent` option on a Span was being ignored if it was set after setting an explicit parent.
    - BUGFIX: Attributes and Labels now preserve the latest added entry when an existing key has been used.
    - BUGFIX: Updated some of the W3C traceparent validation logic to better match the spec.
    - FaaS semantic attributes have been added
    - Semantic attribute for "exception.escaped" added

- SDK
    - BREAKING CHANGE: The names of the Sampler.Decision enum values, returned by the Sampler interface, have changed.
    - `OpenTelemetrySdk.forceFlush()` now returns a CompletableResultCode
    - BREAKING CHANGE: The `ProbabilitySampler` has been renamed to `TraceIdRatioBased`
    - BREAKING CHANGE: The environment variables/system properties for specifying exporter and span processor configuration have been updated to match the specification.
    - BREAKING CHANGE: Exported zipkin attributes have been changed to match the specification.
    - BREAKING CHANGE: Metric Descriptor attributes have been flattened into the MetricData for export.
    - BREAKING CHANGE: The OpenTelemetrySdk class now returns a TraceSdkManagement interface, rather than the concrete TracerSdkProvider.
    - BUGFIX: Zipkin span durations are now rounded up to 1 microsecond, if less than 1.
    - BUGFIX: The insecure option for OTLP export now does the correct thing. 
    - Added a configuration option for disabling SPI-provided ResourceProviders
    - New incubator module with helper classes for working with SpanData
    - AWS resources now include the `cloud.provider` attribute.

- Extensions
    - BREAKING CHANGE: Propagators now only expose a singleton instance.
    - The auto-config extension has been moved to the instrumentation project.
    - New incubator module with some utilities for mutating SpanData instances.
    - The AWS Resource extension will now pull in EKS Resource attributes.
    - New pre-release extension for handling logging natively.
    
Many thanks to all who made this release possible:
   
@bogdandrutu @Oberon00 @jkwatson @thisthat @anuraaga @jarebudev @malafeev @quijote @JasonXZLiu @zoercai @eunice98k @dengliming @breedx-nr @iNikem @wangzlei @imavroukakis 

## 0.8.0 - 2020-09-01

- Extensions:
    - Updated metrics generated by the runtime_metrics module to match the proposed semantic conventions.
- API:
    - BREAKING CHANGE: Renamed HttpTextFormat to TextMapPropagator
    - Added a toBuilder method to the Attributes class
    - Added method to create an Attributes Builder from ReadableAttributes
    - Updates to the Attributes' null-handling to conform to the specification
    - TraceState validations were updated to match the W3C specification
    - recordException Span API now has an additional overload to support additional attributes
- SDK:
    - BUGFIX: Bound instruments with no recordings no longer generate data points.
    - BREAKING CHANGE: The Exporter interfaces have changed to be async-friendly.
    - BREAKING CHANGE: The parent context passed to the Sampler will no longer be nullable, but instead an invalid context will be passed.
    - BREAKING CHANGE: The SpanProcessor now takes a ReadWriteSpan for the onStart method
    - BREAKING CHANGE: ResourceConstants changed to ResourceAttributes
    - BREAKING CHANGE: ParentOrElse Sampler changed to be called ParentBased
    - Default Resource include the SDK attributes
    - ResourceProvider SPI to enable custom Resource providers
    - The individual pieces of the SDK are not published as individual components, in addition to the whole SDK artifact.
    - Zipkin and Jaeger exporters now include the InstrumentationLibraryInfo attributes.
    - The OTLP protobufs were updated to version 0.5.0 and the OTLP exporters were updated accordingly.

- Many thanks for contributions from @anuraaga, @dengliming, @iNikem, @huntc, @jarebudev, @MitchellDumovic, @wtyanan, @williamhu99, @Oberon00, @thisthat, @malafeev, @mateuszrzeszutek, @kenfinnigan


## 0.7.1 - 2020-08-14

- BUGFIX: OTLP Span Exporter: fix splitting metadata key-value substring with more than one '=' sign

## 0.7.0 - 2020-08-02

NOTE: This release contains non-backward-compatible breaking SDK changes

- Added an InMemoryMetricExporter
- Added a toBuilder method to Labels
- Added some semantic attribute constants
- New ZPages extension module with TraceZ and TraceConfigZ pages implemented
- Some overloads added for setting the parent Context
- Some performance improvements in HttpTraceContext implementation
- Removed null checks from the Trace APIs
- The bare API will no longer generate Trace and Span IDs when there is no parent trace context.
- Null Strings are no longer valid keys for Attributes
- BREAKING CHANGE: The Sampler API was changed
- Default endpoint is now set for the OTLP exporters
- BREAKING CHANGE: Jaeger exporter env vars/system properties were updated
- Resource attributes may now be set with a System Property as well as the environment variable.
- Added a propagator for Lightstep OpenTracing propagator
- The ZipkinSpanExporter now defaults to using the OkHttpSender
- The default Sampler in the SDK is now the ParentOrElse sampler
- BUGFIX: SpanWrapper SpanData implementation is now truly Immutable
- Added some simple logging for failed export calls
- Quieted the noisy B3 propagator
- Public constants were added for exporter configuration options
- Added a new configuration option to limit the size of Span attributes
- Many thanks for contributions from @anuraaga, @dengliming, @iNikem, @wtyanan, @williamhu99, @trask, @Oberon00, @MitchellDumovic, @FrankSpitulski, @heyams, @ptravers, @thisthat, @albertteoh, @evantorrie, @neeraj97,

## 0.6.0 - 2020-07-01

NOTE: This release contains non-backward-compatible breaking API and SDK changes

- Introduction of immutable Attributes for SpansEvents, Links and Resources
- Introduction of immutable Labels for Metric Instruments and Recordings
- BUGFIX: make sure null Points are not propagated to metric exporters
- Added a propagator for AWS X-Ray
- BUGFIX: IntervalMetricReader now handles exceptions thrown by metric exporters
- Renamed contrib modules to "extensions" (Note: this changes the published artifact names, as well)
- Converted CorrelationContext entry keys and values to simple Strings
- Enhanced OTLP exporter configuration options
- Added new SDK Telemetry Resource populator
- Introduced an new MultiTracePropagator to handle multiple propagation formats
- Added new AWS Resource populators
- Added an extension to populate span data into log4j2 log formats.
- Changed the MinMaxSumCount aggregations for ValueRecorders to always aggregate deltas, rather than cumulative
- Updated the OTLP protobuf and exporter to version 0.4.0 of the OTLP protobufs.

## 0.5.0 - 2020-06-04

TODO: fill this out

- Add helper API to get Tracer/Meter

## 0.4.0 - 2020-05-04
- Initial implementation of the Zipkin exporter.
- **Breaking change:** Move B3 propagator to a contrib package
- Add support for Jaeger propagator
- Start implementing support for configuring exporters using Config pattern with support to load from environment variables and system properties.
- Add support to flush the entire SDK processors and exporter pipelines.
- Mark all threads/pools as daemon.
- Add support for Jaeger remote sampler.

## 0.3.0 - 2020-03-27
- Initial Java API and SDK for context, trace, metrics, resource.
- Initial implementation of the Jaeger exporter.
- Initial implementation of the OTLP exporters for trace and metrics.
