exporters/jaeger/README.md, before:

# OpenTelemetry - Jaeger Exporter - gRPC

[![Javadocs][javadoc-image]][javadoc-url]

This is the OpenTelemetry exporter, sending span data to Jaeger via gRPC. 

## Configuration

The Jaeger gRPC span exporter can be configured programmatically.

An example of simple Jaeger gRPC exporter initialization. In this case
spans will be sent to a Jaeger gRPC endpoint running on `localhost`:

```java
JaegerGrpcSpanExporter exporter =
        JaegerGrpcSpanExporter.builder()
            .setEndpoint("localhost:14250")
            .setServiceName("my-service")
            .build();
```

Service name and Endpoint can be also configured via environment variables or system properties.

```java
// Using environment variables
JaegerGrpcSpanExporter exporter = 
        JaegerGrpcSpanExporter.builder()
            .readEnvironmentVariables()
            .build()
```

```java
// Using system properties
JaegerGrpcSpanExporter exporter = 
        JaegerGrpcSpanExporter.builder()
            .readSystemProperties()
            .build()
```

The Jaeger gRPC span exporter will look for the following environment variables / system properties:
* `OTEL_EXPORTER_JAEGER_SERVICE_NAME` / `otel.exporter.jaeger.service.name`
* `OTEL_EXPORTER_JAEGER_ENDPOINT` / `otel.exporter.jaeger.endpoint`

## Compatibility

As with the OpenTelemetry SDK itself, this exporter is compatible with Java 8+ and Android API level 24+.

## Proto files

The proto files in this repository were copied over from the [Jaeger main repository][proto-origin]. At this moment, they have to be manually synchronize, but a [discussion exists][proto-discussion] on how to properly consume them in a more appropriate manner.

[proto-origin]: https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger/tree/5b8c1f40f932897b9322bf3f110d830536ae4c71/model/proto
[proto-discussion]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-java/issues/235
[javadoc-image]: https://www.javadoc.io/badge/io.opentelemetry/opentelemetry-exporters-jaeger.svg
[javadoc-url]: https://www.javadoc.io/doc/io.opentelemetry/opentelemetry-exporters-jaeger

Commit message:

cleanup the out-of-date Jaeger exporter docs (#3072)

exporters/jaeger/README.md, after:

# OpenTelemetry - Jaeger Exporter - gRPC

[![Javadocs][javadoc-image]][javadoc-url]

This is the OpenTelemetry exporter, sending span data to Jaeger via gRPC. 

## Configuration

The Jaeger gRPC span exporter can be configured programmatically.

An example of simple Jaeger gRPC exporter initialization. In this case
spans will be sent to a Jaeger gRPC endpoint running on `localhost`:

```java
JaegerGrpcSpanExporter exporter =
        JaegerGrpcSpanExporter.builder()
            .setEndpoint("http://localhost:14250")
            .build();
```

If you need configuration via environment variables and/or system properties, you will want to use
the [autoconfigure](../../sdk-extensions/autoconfigure) module.

## Compatibility

As with the OpenTelemetry SDK itself, this exporter is compatible with Java 8+ and Android API level 24+.

## Proto files

The proto files in this repository were copied over from the [Jaeger main repository][proto-origin]. 
At this moment, they have to be manually synchronized, but a [discussion exists][proto-discussion] on how to properly consume them in a more appropriate manner.

[proto-origin]: https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger/tree/5b8c1f40f932897b9322bf3f110d830536ae4c71/model/proto
[proto-discussion]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-java/issues/235
[javadoc-image]: https://www.javadoc.io/badge/io.opentelemetry/opentelemetry-exporters-jaeger.svg
[javadoc-url]: https://www.javadoc.io/doc/io.opentelemetry/opentelemetry-exporters-jaeger
